The President:
Hi, everybody.
Two weeks ago,
a large bipartisan majority
of Senators voted to pass
commonsense, comprehensive
immigration reform -
taking an important
step towards fixing
our broken immigration
system once and for all.
This bill was a compromise,
and neither side got
everything they wanted.
But it was largely consistent
with the key principles
of commonsense reform that
most of us in both parties
have repeatedly laid out.
If passed, the Senate's
plan would build
on the historic gains we've
made in border security
over the past four years
with the most aggressive border
security plan in our history.
It would offer a pathway
to earned citizenship
for the 11 million people
who are in this
country illegally -
a pathway that includes paying
penalties, learning English,
and going to the
end of the line
behind everyone trying
to come here legally.
And it would modernize our
legal immigration system
to make it more consistent
with our values.
The Senate's plan
would also provide
a big boost to our recovery.
And on Wednesday,
we released a report
detailing exactly how
big a boost that would be.
The report is based on the
findings of independent,
nonpartisan economists and
experts who concluded that,
if the Senate's
plan becomes law,
our economy will be 5% larger
in two decades
compared to the status quo.
That's $1.4 trillion
added to our economy
just by fixing
our immigration system.
Here in America, we've always
been a nation of immigrants.
That's what's kept
our workforce dynamic,
our businesses on
the cutting edge,
and our economy the
strongest in the world.
But under
the current system,
too many smart,
hardworking immigrants
are prevented from contributing
to that success.
Immigration reform
would make it easier
for highly-skilled immigrants
and those who study at our
colleges and universities
to start businesses and create
jobs right here in America.
Foreign companies would be
more likely to invest here.
The demand for goods and
services would go up -
creating more jobs
for American workers.
Every worker and business
would be required
to pay their
fair share in taxes,
reducing our deficit
by nearly $850 billion
over the next two decades.
And since a large
portion of those taxes
go towards retirement programs
that millions
of Americans depend on,
Social Security would
actually get stronger
over the long-term -
adding two years to the life
of the program's trust fund.
That's what immigration reform
would mean for our economy -
but only if we act.
If we don't do anything
to fix our broken system,
our workforce will continue to
shrink as baby boomers retire.
We won't benefit from
highly-skilled immigrants
starting businesses
and creating jobs here.
American workers
will have to make due
with lower wages
and fewer protections.
And without more
immigrants and businesses
paying their fair
share in taxes,
our deficit will be higher
and programs like
Social Security
will be under more strain.
We've been debating this issue
for more than a decade -
ever since President Bush
first proposed
the broad outlines
of immigration reform -
and I think he gave a very
good speech this past week
expressing his hope
that a bipartisan,
comprehensive bill
can become law.
If Democrats and Republicans -
including President Bush and I -
can agree on something,
that's a pretty good
place to start.
Now the House needs to act
so I can sign commonsense
immigration reform into law.
And if you agree,
tell your Representatives
that now is the time.
Call or email or post
on their Facebook walls
and ask them to get this done.
Because together,
we can grow our economy
and keep America strong
for years to come.
Thanks,
and have a great weekend.